in this lesson we're going to look at
the benefits and usage of ai services
there's many scenarios today where we
have some data
and i want to ascertain something from
that data
i'm trying to emulate some aspect of
human behavior now this could be i want
to identify a pattern i want to identify
what something is
i want to predict maybe what's going to
happen
based on what's happened in the past
based on a certain set of events a
certain set of data
now when i think about ai artificial
intelligence this is about the ability
for deep learning based on that normal
network of the brain itself
i don't have to specifically program
something
machine learning is more about i'm going
to train a model i'm going to train a
model based on some existing data
then i want to apply that generated
model to new data
so it can
forecast maybe some future outcome it
can give me some piece of information
and we commonly use those more and more
in many types of service today now if i
think about well what are the services
for that in azure
we have the idea
of azure
machine
learning
so azure machine learning is about the
idea that it's a platform
so this is a platform that i can use
for predictions
it's something that's going to be used
for example by the data scientists in my
company who want complete control
so i think about hey i have these data
scientists
and i want total control
every aspect of creating writing the
model training the model tweaking the
various things
so if i think about this i want this is
that platform that lets me define well
how
to get data
i'm going to use
i'm going to think about training a
model
but also we have to evaluate we'll have
lots of different models and we have to
evaluate those models to see okay which
one's working which ones are not where
should we treat tweak them
so this is about training and evaluate
the models
we think about then various experiments
there's going to be a pipeline
for our experiments
and then i obviously have to deploy
so i want to deploy the algorithm
that we generate
and i want to deploy that algorithm and
make it available
as an api
that's accessible by some endpoint
the whole point of this is that hey i
create these models
i
train and evaluate them
i have a pipeline for my various
experiments
and then once i've got one working i
need to make it available to
applications
so this is going to help me deploy the
algorithm that we generate make it
available via an api and the api is
accessed via some endpoint with the
whole goal of then being some other
application
can talk to that endpoint to leverage
that model we've built
so the azure machine learning gives me
that platform that lets me do all of
this but it's involved
my data scientists are doing a lot of
work a lot of writing things but then
they have complete control over that
so that's great if that's what you want
you want to do these deep customized
different types of service but what if i
don't want that
what about if actually i just want
something kind of pre-built that can
help me identify objects or understand
human speech or translate from one
language to another
so the next set of services we have are
the various azure
cognitive
services
so the whole point of these azure
cognitive services
is these are pre-built
so we have a number
of pre-built models
that i can very easily spin up and then
leverage within some application i'm
doing
i don't need specialist knowledge for
these i can with very very minimal
coding
interact with this
so there are models built around things
like language
i want that ability to maybe someone's
communicating in natural language and i
need to actually assess what is being
maybe asked of me maybe i want to assess
the sentiment is this positive is this
negative
i need to learn and recognize what users
actually want
then we can actually think there are
various speech
services
so the idea of the speech service is hey
someone's talking to me
i can convert it to text
i might take text into net natural
sounding speech i want to translate from
one language to another language
i can do all these with the various
speech cognitive services
then we have things around vision
now with vision the idea here is i want
to add recognition and identification
capabilities
maybe i have a security camera
and i want to identify someone's not
wearing a safety helmet
in the covered world hey someone's not
wearing a mask for example and flag that
i'm seeing something that's a security
risk i want to identify what's in this
picture hey it's a person it's a car
it's a certain type of flower
i can do that with the vision services
and then there are things like decision
services
we have the idea that i want to get some
recommendation
that maybe improves over time
to
recommend something maybe it's
moderating content it can automatically
remove certain things or detect some
anomaly
there's a whole range of these but the
point of this service is hey i want
saying pre-built i just want to use
something hey it's probably going to be
azure cognitive services
now the next one we have
is the azure bot service
how many times have you been on some
website and it's hey do you want to talk
to us
and it's some chat interaction so
there's some aspect now it could be text
it could be voice but i'm interacting
with some kind of virtual agent
so the whole point here is i have these
virtual agents
that i'm interacting in some way
and as part of this service we have to
do a number of different things so
there's some user on the other end
communicating but if there's some user
communicating
we have to understand
we have to understand what are they
asking what is the intent of their
question
and then what we have is with the bot
that we build
we have a knowledge base so we have a
certain knowledge base
through which the bop can draw and based
on its understanding of what's being
asked it can respond in a rich way to
that end user
and again it doesn't have to be text
it's chat so this could be text
it could be speech
and the whole point is it can leverage
behind the scenes these other services
to understand what's being asked but i'm
going to build this knowledge base that
it's going to draw from to how it can
actually go and respond and when i build
a bot i can actually use it from many
different places it's not a one-to-one
correlation
so these are the three kind of key
machine learning services we'll think
about
azure machine learning
i want a platform on which i can as a
data scientist
build my model test my model make my
model available to other applications
azure cognitive services they're
pre-built
hey i have some picture that i want to
analyze some video some audio some
translation i need some help with some
prediction
but i don't want to have to be that data
scientist i want it out the box azure
cognitive services hey i'm building a
virtual agent
azure bot service